README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io)

Qubes OS Official Website
=========================

Canonical URL: https://www.qubes-os.org

This is the main repository for the [Qubes OS Project][qubes] website. Qubes is
a security-oriented, open-source operating system for personal computers. It
uses virtualization to implement [security by compartmentalization][intro] and
supports both Linux and Windows virtual environments.


Backers
-------

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/qubes-os#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>


Supporters
----------

Is your organization using Qubes? Ask your manager to support us. Your organization's logo will show up on our [Partners page](https://www.qubes-os.org/partners/). [[Become a supporter](https://opencollective.com/qubes-os#supporter)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/29/avatar.svg"></a>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

This repository consists of a [Jekyll] site and several Git submodules for
content:

 * `qubes-doc` (official documentation)
 * `qubes-attachment` (binary files such as images)
 * `qubes-hcl` (Hardware Compatibility List (HCL) reports generated by a YAML
   version of `qubes-hcl-report`)
 * `qubes-posts` (news and blog posts)

Instructions
------------

### Docker Compose ###

1. Install the [Docker Engine] and [Docker Compose].

2. Start the Docker daemon, e.g.:

        $ sudo systemctl start docker

3. Clone this repo, including all submodules, and enter it:

        $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.git
        $ cd qubesos.github.io/

4. Start and run the website:

        $ sudo make

5. Open your browser and navigate to:

        http://127.0.0.1:4000/

### Jekyll on Fedora ###

1. Install dependencies:

        $ sudo dnf install redhat-rpm-config ruby ruby-devel zlib-devel nodejs

2. Clone this repo, including all submodules, and enter it:

        $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.git
        $ cd qubesos.github.io/

3. Update RubyGems:

        $ sudo gem update --system

4. Install required Gems:

        $ gem install jekyll bundler github-pages

5. Serve the website:

        $ bundle exec jekyll serve

6. Open your browser and navigate to:

        http://127.0.0.1:4000/

### Notes ###

 * Here is the state of [`qubesos.github.io`][web-3.2] and
   [`qubes-doc`][doc-3.2] when [Qubes OS 3.2 reached EOL].
 * To update the submodules, use `git submodule foreach git pull --tags`.
 * For troubleshooting with RubyGems, see: <http://guides.rubygems.org/>
 * For troubleshooting with Jekyll, see: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/>
 * For troubleshooting with GitHub pages and Jekyll, see: <https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-as-a-static-site-generator-with-github-pages/>
 * To run on a Git post-receive hook, use:

        GIT_REPO=/usr/home/git/repositories/www.qubes-os.org.git
        GIT_CLONE=/usr/home/git/tmp/www.qubes-os.org
        PUBLIC_WWW=/usr/local/www/qubes-os.org/www/

        if [ ! -d "$GIT_CLONE" ]; then
            git clone --recursive $GIT_REPO $GIT_CLONE
        else
            git --work-tree=$GIT_CLONE --git-dir=$GIT_CLONE/.git pull
        fi
        cd $GIT_CLONE && jekyll build -s $GIT_CLONE -d $PUBLIC_WWW

        find $PUBLIC_WWW -type f -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 666
        find $PUBLIC_WWW -type d -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 777

        exit

Documentation Guidelines
------------------------

Our [Documentation Guidelines] include:
 - How to Report Issues
 - How to Contribute
 - Contribution Suggestions
 - Style Guidelines
 - Markdown Conventions
 - Git Conventions

Please carefully read these guidelines before submitting a pull request.

### Dependencies & Third Party Docs ###

- [Jekyll Documentation] - template rendering engine
- [Bootstrap 3] - styling and CSS structure
- [FontAwesome] - the icon font throughout the site
- [jQuery 1.7] - javascript helper library
- [jQuery ToC MD Generator] - renders header menu on documentation section


[qubes]: https://github.com/QubesOS
[intro]: https://www.qubes-os.org/intro/
[Documentation Guidelines]: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/doc-guidelines/
[Jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[Jekyll Documentation]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/
[Docker Engine]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/
[Docker Compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
[FontAwesome]: http://fontawesome.io
[Bootstrap 3]: http://getbootstrap.com
[jQuery 1.7]: http://api.jquery.com
[jQuery ToC MD Generator]: https://github.com/dafi/tocmd-generator
[gh-fork]: https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/
[gh-pull]: https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/
[patch]: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/source-code/#sending-a-patch
[web-3.2]: https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io/tree/auto_8bc049d3
[doc-3.2]: https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-doc/tree/adw_0f285266
[Qubes OS 3.2 reached EOL]: https://www.qubes-os.org/news/2019/03/28/qubes-3-2-has-reached-eol/

Commit message:

Create section for deprecated documentation
Provides a link to a ZIP archive of the Qubes website when Qubes OS 3.2
reached EOL, as well as links to the repo states of the primary repo and
all submodules when Qubes OS 3.2 reached EOL.

QubesOS/qubes-issues#4936

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io)

Qubes OS Official Website
=========================

Canonical URL: https://www.qubes-os.org

This is the main repository for the [Qubes OS Project][qubes] website. Qubes is
a security-oriented, open-source operating system for personal computers. It
uses virtualization to implement [security by compartmentalization][intro] and
supports both Linux and Windows virtual environments.


Backers
-------

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/qubes-os#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>


Supporters
----------

Is your organization using Qubes? Ask your manager to support us. Your organization's logo will show up on our [Partners page](https://www.qubes-os.org/partners/). [[Become a supporter](https://opencollective.com/qubes-os#supporter)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/qubes-os/supporter/29/avatar.svg"></a>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

This repository consists of a [Jekyll] site and several Git submodules for
content:

 - `qubes-doc` (official documentation)
 - `qubes-attachment` (binary files such as images)
 - `qubes-hcl` (Hardware Compatibility List (HCL) reports generated by a YAML
   version of `qubes-hcl-report`)
 - `qubes-posts` (news and blog posts)

Instructions
------------

### Docker Compose ###

1. Install the [Docker Engine] and [Docker Compose].

2. Start the Docker daemon, e.g.:

        $ sudo systemctl start docker

3. Clone this repo, including all submodules, and enter it:

        $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.git
        $ cd qubesos.github.io/

4. Start and run the website:

        $ sudo make

5. Open your browser and navigate to:

        http://127.0.0.1:4000/

### Jekyll on Fedora ###

1. Install dependencies:

        $ sudo dnf install redhat-rpm-config ruby ruby-devel zlib-devel nodejs

2. Clone this repo, including all submodules, and enter it:

        $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io.git
        $ cd qubesos.github.io/

3. Update RubyGems:

        $ sudo gem update --system

4. Install required Gems:

        $ gem install jekyll bundler github-pages

5. Serve the website:

        $ bundle exec jekyll serve

6. Open your browser and navigate to:

        http://127.0.0.1:4000/

### Notes ###

 - To update the submodules, use `git submodule foreach git pull --tags`.
 - For troubleshooting with RubyGems, see: <http://guides.rubygems.org/>
 - For troubleshooting with Jekyll, see: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/>
 - For troubleshooting with GitHub pages and Jekyll, see: <https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-as-a-static-site-generator-with-github-pages/>
 - To run on a Git post-receive hook, use:

        GIT_REPO=/usr/home/git/repositories/www.qubes-os.org.git
        GIT_CLONE=/usr/home/git/tmp/www.qubes-os.org
        PUBLIC_WWW=/usr/local/www/qubes-os.org/www/

        if [ ! -d "$GIT_CLONE" ]; then
            git clone --recursive $GIT_REPO $GIT_CLONE
        else
            git --work-tree=$GIT_CLONE --git-dir=$GIT_CLONE/.git pull
        fi
        cd $GIT_CLONE && jekyll build -s $GIT_CLONE -d $PUBLIC_WWW

        find $PUBLIC_WWW -type f -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 666
        find $PUBLIC_WWW -type d -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 777

        exit

Documentation Guidelines
------------------------

Our [Documentation Guidelines] include:
 - How to Report Issues
 - How to Contribute
 - Contribution Suggestions
 - Style Guidelines
 - Markdown Conventions
 - Git Conventions

Please carefully read these guidelines before submitting a pull request.

### Dependencies & Third Party Docs ###

 - [Jekyll Documentation] - template rendering engine
 - [Bootstrap 3] - styling and CSS structure
 - [FontAwesome] - the icon font throughout the site
 - [jQuery 1.7] - javascript helper library
 - [jQuery ToC MD Generator] - renders header menu on documentation section

Deprecated Documentation
------------------------

 - [qubes-os.org-3.2-EOL.zip] contains the state of the Qubes website when
   [Qubes OS 3.2 reached EOL]. All you need to browse it is a web browser.
 - Here is the state of this repo and all submodules when [Qubes OS 3.2 reached
   EOL]:
   - https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io/tree/3.2-EOL
   - https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-doc/tree/3.2-EOL
   - https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-hcl/tree/3.2-EOL
   - https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-posts/tree/3.2-EOL
   - https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-attachment/tree/3.2-EOL


[qubes]: https://github.com/QubesOS
[intro]: https://www.qubes-os.org/intro/
[Documentation Guidelines]: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/doc-guidelines/
[Jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[Jekyll Documentation]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/
[Docker Engine]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/
[Docker Compose]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
[FontAwesome]: http://fontawesome.io
[Bootstrap 3]: http://getbootstrap.com
[jQuery 1.7]: http://api.jquery.com
[jQuery ToC MD Generator]: https://github.com/dafi/tocmd-generator
[gh-fork]: https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/
[gh-pull]: https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/
[patch]: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/source-code/#sending-a-patch
[qubes-os.org-3.2-EOL.zip]: https://github.com/QubesOS/qubesos.github.io/releases/download/3.2-EOL/qubes-os.org-3.2-EOL.zip
[Qubes OS 3.2 reached EOL]: https://www.qubes-os.org/news/2019/03/28/qubes-3-2-has-reached-eol/
