pages/code-of-conduct.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Code of Conduct
permalink: /code-of-conduct/
---

## Our Pledge

The Qubes OS project creates a reasonably secure OS. In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, sexual identity and orientation, or other characteristic.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:
- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:
- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Reinforcing stereotypical models for illustration of non-technical users (e.g. our mothers/grandmothers, etc.)
- Public or private harassment, as defined by the [Citizen Code of Conduct](http://citizencodeofconduct.org/)
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior. This action can include removing, editing, or rejecting comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting the project team at `mods@qubes-os.org`. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant, version 1.4](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4) and the [Rust Code of Conduct](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/conduct.html).

Commit message:

Add "A note on trust" to the code of conduct
https://github.com/QubesOS/qubes-issues/issues/2163#issuecomment-278297127

pages/code-of-conduct.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Code of Conduct
permalink: /code-of-conduct/
---

## Our Pledge

The Qubes OS project creates a reasonably secure OS. In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, sexual identity and orientation, or other characteristic.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:
- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:
- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Reinforcing stereotypical models for illustration of non-technical users (e.g. our mothers/grandmothers, etc.)
- Public or private harassment, as defined by the [Citizen Code of Conduct](http://citizencodeofconduct.org/)
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior. This action can include removing, editing, or rejecting comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting the project team at `mods@qubes-os.org`. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.

## A note on trust

Expect all contributions to be reviewed with some amount of healthy adversarial skepticism, regardless of your perceived standing in the community.
This is a security project, and allowing ourselves to get complacent while reviewing code simply because it comes from a well-known party would not be in the best interest of the project.
Please try not to get offended if you perceive your contributions as being met with distrust -- we are most definitely thankful and appreciative of your efforts, but must also remain vigilant in order to ensure continued quality and safeguard against potential sabotage.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant, version 1.4](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4) and the [Rust Code of Conduct](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/conduct.html).
