pages/downloads.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Downloads
permalink: /downloads/
redirect_from:
- /doc/releases/
- /en/doc/releases/
- /doc/QubesDownloads/
- /wiki/QubesDownloads/
---

Before You Download...
----------------------

-   [System Requirements](/doc/system-requirements/)
-   [Hardware Compatibility List](/hcl/)
-   [Supported Versions](/doc/supported-versions/)
-   [Version Scheme](/doc/version-scheme/)
-   [How to Verify Signatures](/doc/verifying-signatures/)
-   [Installation Security Considerations](/doc/install-security/)
-   [Qubes OS License](/doc/license/)
-   [Qubes OS Source Code](https://github.com/QubesOS)

Qubes Live USB (alpha)
----------------------

-   [**Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso)
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso)
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Usage Guide**](/doc/live-usb/)

Qubes Release 3.1 (release candidate)
-------------------------------------

| Source                                           | Bootable image  | [Verifiers](/doc/verifying-signatures/) |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| [*mirrors.kernel.org*](https://mirrors.kernel.org/) (HTTPS)                     | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso)  | [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |
| [*ftp.qubes-os.org*](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/)   (HTTPS)                     | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso) | [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |
| [*Rudd-O.com*](https://rudd-o.com/) (BitTorrent) | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.torrent**](https://rudd-o.com/downloads/qubes/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.torrent) | [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/3.1/release-notes/)
-   [Release Schedule](/doc/releases/3.1/schedule/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R3.1 rc1](/doc/releases/3.1/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 3.0 (latest stable release)
-------------------------------------

-   [**Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/3.0/release-notes/)
-   [Release Schedule](/doc/releases/3.0/schedule/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R3.0](/doc/releases/3.0/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 2
---------------------------------------

(This is an old release. We strongly recommend using Qubes 3.0 or higher.)

-   [**Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-2-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-2-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/2.0/release-notes/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R2](/doc/releases/2.0/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 1
---------------

(This is an old release. We strongly recommend using Qubes 3.0 or higher.)

-   [**Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-1-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-1-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/1.0/release-notes/)

Mirrors
-------

Qubes ISOs are available from the following mirrors:

-   [Burnbit torrent](http://burnbit.com/search?q=qubes)
-   [mirrors.kernel.org](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/)

Commit message:

Add warning about outdated Live images.

pages/downloads.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Downloads
permalink: /downloads/
redirect_from:
- /doc/releases/
- /en/doc/releases/
- /doc/QubesDownloads/
- /wiki/QubesDownloads/
---

Before You Download...
----------------------

-   [System Requirements](/doc/system-requirements/)
-   [Hardware Compatibility List](/hcl/)
-   [Supported Versions](/doc/supported-versions/)
-   [Version Scheme](/doc/version-scheme/)
-   [How to Verify Signatures](/doc/verifying-signatures/)
-   [Installation Security Considerations](/doc/install-security/)
-   [Qubes OS License](/doc/license/)
-   [Qubes OS Source Code](https://github.com/QubesOS)

Qubes Live USB (alpha)
----------------------

**Warning: Live USB edition is older than recent 3.1 release and lack some of
its features (and bug fixes). If you want newest available image, download 3.1
installation image. You can install it on a second USB stick**

-   [**Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso)
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso)
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-alpha1.1-x86_64-LIVE.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Usage Guide**](/doc/live-usb/)

Qubes Release 3.1 (release candidate)
-------------------------------------

| Source                                           | Bootable image  | [Verifiers](/doc/verifying-signatures/) |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| [*mirrors.kernel.org*](https://mirrors.kernel.org/) (HTTPS)                     | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso)  | [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |
| [*ftp.qubes-os.org*](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/)   (HTTPS)                     | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso) | [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |
| [*Rudd-O.com*](https://rudd-o.com/) (BitTorrent) | [**Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.torrent**](https://rudd-o.com/downloads/qubes/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.torrent) | [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.DIGESTS)]&nbsp;[[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.1-rc2-x86_64.iso.asc)]&nbsp;[[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)] |

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/3.1/release-notes/)
-   [Release Schedule](/doc/releases/3.1/schedule/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R3.1 rc1](/doc/releases/3.1/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 3.0 (latest stable release)
-------------------------------------

-   [**Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R3.0-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-3-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/3.0/release-notes/)
-   [Release Schedule](/doc/releases/3.0/schedule/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R3.0](/doc/releases/3.0/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 2
---------------------------------------

(This is an old release. We strongly recommend using Qubes 3.0 or higher.)

-   [**Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-2-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R2-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-2-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/2.0/release-notes/)
-   [Upgrading to Qubes R2](/doc/releases/2.0/release-notes/#upgrading)

Qubes Release 1
---------------

(This is an old release. We strongly recommend using Qubes 3.0 or higher.)

-   [**Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-1-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (mirrors.kernel.org)
-   [**Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso**](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso)
      [[hash](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.DIGESTS)]
      [[sig](https://ftp.qubes-os.org/iso/Qubes-R1-x86_64-DVD.iso.asc)]
      [[key](https://keys.qubes-os.org/keys/qubes-release-1-signing-key.asc)]
      [[?](/doc/verifying-signatures/)]
      (ftp.qubes-os.org)

-   [**Installation Guide**](/doc/installation-guide/)
-   [Release Notes](/doc/releases/1.0/release-notes/)

Mirrors
-------

Qubes ISOs are available from the following mirrors:

-   [Burnbit torrent](http://burnbit.com/search?q=qubes)
-   [mirrors.kernel.org](https://mirrors.kernel.org/qubes/iso/)
