pages/funding.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Funding
permalink: /funding/
---

Qubes OS Project Funding
========================

Qubes OS is [free open-source software][FOSS] (read about the [license]). This
means that Qubes OS is not a paid or proprietary product. We do not earn any
revenue by selling it. Instead, we rely external sources of funding from
individuals and organizations who find the work we do valuable and who in turn
rely on Qubes OS for secure computing in their work and personal lives.

Current and Past Funding Sources
--------------------------------

The Qubes OS Project currently receives (or has received) funding from the
following sources:

[![itl](/attachment/site/itl.png)][itl]

Invisible Things Lab s.c. (ITL) supported Qubes OS development from the
beginning of the project in 2010 until the end of 2014. ITL's primary source of
revenue is security research and development. ITL s.c. is a privately held
company, registered in Warsaw, Poland, and owned by Joanna Rutkowska and her
partner.

[![otf](/attachment/site/OTF-logo.png)][OTF] (read the [announcement])

[![nlnet](/attachment/site/nlnet.gif)][nlnet]

[![btc](/attachment/site/btc.png) Bitcoin donations][donate]

Future Funding Sources
----------------------

We plan to fund continued Qubes OS development through a diverse mix of sources,
both in terms of the entities providing the funding and the timelines of the
funding. We are currently seeking new sources of funding. We also welcome your
help in these endeavors. If you or your organization has relevant knowledge,
experience, leads, or resources and would like to help us secure the future of
Qubes OS, please contact `michael at qubes-os dot org`.


[FOSS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software
[license]: /doc/license/
[itl]: http://invisiblethingslab.com/itl/Welcome.html
[OTF]: https://www.opentech.fund/project/qubes-os
[announcement]: http://blog.invisiblethings.org/2015/06/04/otf-funding-announcement.html
[nlnet]: https://nlnet.nl
[donate]: /donate/

Commit message:

added small blurbs
added small blurbs to each funder.

re: ITL, weird to list only one owner of the company since they are both on the team (and team page), fixed that.

pages/funding.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Funding
permalink: /funding/
---

Qubes OS Project Funding
========================

Qubes OS is [free open-source software][FOSS] (read about the [license]). This
means that Qubes OS is not a paid or proprietary product. We do not earn any
revenue by selling it. Instead, we rely external sources of funding from
individuals and organizations who find the work we do valuable and who in turn
rely on Qubes OS for secure computing in their work and personal lives.

Current and Past Funding Sources
--------------------------------

The Qubes OS Project currently receives (or has received) funding from the
following sources:

[![itl](/attachment/site/itl.png)][itl]

Invisible Things Lab s.c. (ITL) supported Qubes OS development from the
beginning of the project in 2010 until the end of 2014. ITL's primary source of
revenue is security research and development. ITL s.c. is a privately held
company, registered in Warsaw, Poland, and owned by Joanna Rutkowska and Joanna Gołębiewska.

[![otf](/attachment/site/OTF-logo.png)][OTF] (read the [announcement])

The Open Technology Fund (OTF) is a Unites States government-funded program of [Radio Free Asia](http://www.rfa.org), whose [stated mission is](https://www.opentech.fund/about/program) to "support open technologies and communities that increase free expression, circumvent censorship, and obstruct repressive surveillance as a way to promote human rights and open societies." 

[![nlnet](/attachment/site/nlnet.gif)][nlnet]

"Stichting NLnet" (NLnet Foundation in Dutch) is a recognized philathropic non-profit foundation based in the Netherlands, whose [stated mission is](https://nlnet.nl/foundation/) "to promote the exchange of electronic information and all that is related or beneficial to that purpose."

[![btc](/attachment/site/btc.png) Bitcoin donations][donate]

Future Funding Sources
----------------------

We plan to fund continued Qubes OS development through a diverse mix of sources,
both in terms of the entities providing the funding and the timelines of the
funding. We are currently seeking new sources of funding. We also welcome your
help in these endeavors. If you or your organization has relevant knowledge,
experience, leads, or resources and would like to help us secure the future of
Qubes OS, please contact `michael at qubes-os dot org`.


[FOSS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software
[license]: /doc/license/
[itl]: http://invisiblethingslab.com/itl/Welcome.html
[OTF]: https://www.opentech.fund/project/qubes-os
[announcement]: http://blog.invisiblethings.org/2015/06/04/otf-funding-announcement.html
[nlnet]: https://nlnet.nl
[donate]: /donate/
