pages/hardware-certification.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Hardware Certification
permalink: /hardware-certification/
---

## Become Hardware Certified

If you are a hardware vendor, you can have your hardware certified as
compatible with Qubes OS. To view currently certified hardware, please see
the [Qubes-certified Laptops] page.

The benefits of hardware certification include:

* your customers can buy with confidence
- *your customers know they can take advantage of the full functionality
of Qubes OS on your hardware*

* ensure continued compatibility
- *your hardware will continue to be compatible with Qubes OS as it
further develops*

* support the development of Qubes OS
- *support the continued development of everyone's favorite "reasonably
secure" OS*

## Hardware Certification Requirements

Please see the [updated requirements] for Qubes R4.x certification.

## Hardware Certification Process

To have hardware certified, the vendor must:

1. send the Qubes team two (2) units for testing (non-returnable) for
each configuration the vendor wishes to be offering,

2. offer to customers the very same configuration -- same motherboard,
same screen, same BIOS version, same WiFi module, etc. -- for some
sufficiently long period of time (currently approximately a year),

3. pay the Qubes team a portion of the sales of each unit, to be agreed
upon between the hardware vendor and the Qubes team.

It is the vendor's responsibility to ensure the hardware they wish to
have certified can run Qubes OS, at the very least the last stable
version. This could be done by consulting the [hardware compatibility
list](https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/hcl/) or trying to install it
themselves before shipping to us. While we are willing to troubleshoot
simple issues, we will need to charge a consulting fee for more engaging
work.

If you are interested in having your hardware certified, please [contact us](mailto:joanna@invisiblethingslab.com)

[Qubes-certified Laptops]: /doc/certified-laptops/
[updated requirements]: /news/2016/07/21/new-hw-certification-for-q4/

Commit message:

Update Hardware Certification page
* Clarify that 4.x certification requirements are not minimum
  requirements
* Change contact address to new business address

pages/hardware-certification.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Hardware Certification
permalink: /hardware-certification/
---

## Become Hardware Certified

If you are a hardware vendor, you can have your hardware certified as
compatible with Qubes OS. To view currently certified hardware, please see
the [Qubes-certified Laptops] page.

The benefits of hardware certification include:

* your customers can buy with confidence
- *your customers know they can take advantage of the full functionality
of Qubes OS on your hardware*

* ensure continued compatibility
- *your hardware will continue to be compatible with Qubes OS as it
further develops*

* support the development of Qubes OS
- *support the continued development of everyone's favorite "reasonably
secure" OS*

## Hardware Certification Requirements

Please see the [updated requirements] for Qubes 4.x certification.

**Note:** These are the requirements for hardware certification, *not* the
requirements for *running* Qubes 4.x. For the latter, please see the
[system requirements for Qubes 4.x].

## Hardware Certification Process

To have hardware certified, the vendor must:

1. send the Qubes team two (2) units for testing (non-returnable) for
each configuration the vendor wishes to be offering,

2. offer to customers the very same configuration -- same motherboard,
same screen, same BIOS version, same WiFi module, etc. -- for some
sufficiently long period of time (currently approximately a year),

3. pay the Qubes team a portion of the sales of each unit, to be agreed
upon between the hardware vendor and the Qubes team.

It is the vendor's responsibility to ensure the hardware they wish to
have certified can run Qubes OS, at the very least the last stable
version. This could be done by consulting the [hardware compatibility
list](https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/hcl/) or trying to install it
themselves before shipping to us. While we are willing to troubleshoot
simple issues, we will need to charge a consulting fee for more engaging
work.

If you are interested in having your hardware certified, please [contact us].

[Qubes-certified Laptops]: /doc/certified-laptops/
[updated requirements]: /news/2016/07/21/new-hw-certification-for-q4/
[system requirements for Qubes 4.x]: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/system-requirements/#qubes-release-4x
[contact us]: mailto:business@qubes-os.org
