pages/partners.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Partners
permalink: /partners/
redirect_from: /en/partners/
---

Qubes Partners
==============

This page is dedicated to recogizing the organizations which have contributed
support to the development of Qubes OS and its features. The Qubes Project is
grateful for their support!

If your organization is interested in becoming a Qubes Partner, please 
contact `michael at qubes-os dot org`. For monetary
donations, please see the [donations page](/en/donate).

[![nlnet](/attachment/site/nlnet.gif)][nlnet]

In 2016, the NLnet Foundation provided a small grant to the Qubes project to support improvements in automated build processes, Debian template packaging, networking & privacy, and hardware compatibility.

[![otf](/attachment/site/OTF-logo.png)][otf]

In 2015-2016, the [Open Technology Fund funded][otf-f] the Qubes project in a number of activities to improve Qubes, make it easier to use and more accessible. 

In 2014-2015, the [Open Technology Fund funded][otf-f] the Qubes project to integrate [Whonix][whonix], improve hardware compatibility and user experience. The complete announcement is available [here][2015-otf].

[![accessnow](/attachment/site/accessnow.png)][accessnow]

Beginning in 2015 the international human rights organization [Access Now][accessnow]
generously agreed to provide staff time to help manage the Qubes OS project.

[nlnet]: https://nlnet.nl
[otf]: https://www.opentechfund.org/
[otf-f]: https://www.opentech.fund/project/qubes-os
[whonix]: https://www.whonix.org/
[2015-otf]: http://blog.invisiblethings.org/2015/06/04/otf-funding-announcement.html
[accessnow]: https://www.accessnow.org/

Commit message:

Add link to Funding page and fix link to Donations page
QubesOS/qubes-issues#1701

pages/partners.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Partners
permalink: /partners/
redirect_from: /en/partners/
---

Qubes Partners
==============

This page is dedicated to recogizing the organizations which have contributed
support to the development of Qubes OS and its features. The Qubes Project is
grateful for their support!

If your organization is interested in becoming a Qubes Partner, please 
contact `michael at qubes-os dot org`. You can also read more about how Qubes is
[funded] and about making a [monetary donation] to the project.

[![nlnet](/attachment/site/nlnet.gif)][nlnet]

In 2016, the NLnet Foundation provided a small grant to the Qubes project to support improvements in automated build processes, Debian template packaging, networking & privacy, and hardware compatibility.

[![otf](/attachment/site/OTF-logo.png)][otf]

In 2015-2016, the [Open Technology Fund funded][otf-f] the Qubes project in a number of activities to improve Qubes, make it easier to use and more accessible. 

In 2014-2015, the [Open Technology Fund funded][otf-f] the Qubes project to integrate [Whonix][whonix], improve hardware compatibility and user experience. The complete announcement is available [here][2015-otf].

[![accessnow](/attachment/site/accessnow.png)][accessnow]

Beginning in 2015 the international human rights organization [Access Now][accessnow]
generously agreed to provide staff time to help manage the Qubes OS project.

[funded]: /funding/
[monetary donation]: /donate/
[nlnet]: https://nlnet.nl
[otf]: https://www.opentechfund.org/
[otf-f]: https://www.opentech.fund/project/qubes-os
[whonix]: https://www.whonix.org/
[2015-otf]: http://blog.invisiblethings.org/2015/06/04/otf-funding-announcement.html
[accessnow]: https://www.accessnow.org/
